- [Instructor] So now we're going to talk about one
of the more painful areas of data leakage,
and that is log messages.
If you've been writing code
for any amount of time professionally,
you can see how this is a juxtaposition
between security and progress, and that's a valid point.
Log messages are an invaluable tool
for the operations of a system.
We need log messages.
We need it to track user behavior in our systems,
as well as troubleshoot issues.
To make operational work more efficient,
more information in our logs is better.
Now, I'm not saying more log messages.
I'm saying more verbose messaging.
The more detail we put into a single message,
the bigger picture we paint
of what is going on at any given time.
To add to this mix, we use log aggregations
to consolidate all of our logs into one place.
This gives us the ability to traverse the logs
from multiple systems at once
to add clarity to the picture we are painting.
All of this yields a great operational stance,
but it also creates a very high-value target.
If there is any sensitive data in the log messages,
that high-value target becomes even bigger target.
The tool we use to keep our users happy
with our systems can also be our demise.
So what can we do?
We need to continue to produce solid log data
for all of our systems, but they are a risk.
The answer is a plan of mitigation.
First and foremost, don't log the data.
If it's sensitive data and it really doesn't help,
and you have to be super critical here,
if it doesn't help operationally in our log messages,
simply don't log it.
Many times, this is sufficient, but it isn't always valid.
Obfuscation is a valid strategy
when the data is useful in our logs,
but it still has to be protected.
I've run a few SSO and customer management systems
in my time for a couple different companies.
And we need things like email address in our log messages.
The only way to accomplish this is
to obfuscate the data in a way that we can still find it,
but if a bad actor does, it will be worthless.
If the data needs to be in logs,
but it doesn't need to be searchable,
consider tokenizing the data.
You can simply log a unique identifier for the data
or build some tokenization strategy.
This will allow you to still find the data
in the logs through redirection.
Of course, you can still search on this data,
but it usually requires extra data look-ups
that simple obfuscation can remove.
Ultimately, the core answer here is
to build strategies around log messages
and ensure that your team follows those strategies
through code reviews as well as routine validation
of your log data itself.
So I'm going to share with you an obfuscation strategy
that I almost exclusively use
when I need to log data that needs to be searchable.
The strategy that I use is
through the use of cryptographic hashing.
By using a strong cryptographic algorithm,
I get several benefits.
First, it is one-way,
meaning unless the hashing algorithm is compromised,
the data cannot be identified in its raw form.
It is also unique in the logs,
so I am guaranteed a one-to-one mapping of data and hash.
I then take that binary data and hex encode it.
So I take the hash,
and I run it through a hex encoding algorithm.
This makes it a smaller and more manageable footprint
in the log itself.
Seeing a hex value of binary data is much easier on the eyes
and on the length of the message itself.
Finally, I leverage the uniqueness of the hash
to search for the data.
I know if user X has log-in issues, for instance,
I can take his or her email address, hash it,
hex encode it, and then search for that value
to find the logs around that user's activity.